Summary:
The following program to find prime numbers within a certain range was written in c on the windows operating system. The program was written to use 8 threads with a range to 100 million, but these values may be changed by the user, by directly editing the initial values at the beginning of the program (numThreads and numLimit). Due note that a minimum of 100 for the limit is required, due to implementation. The PrimeFinder function (which are created as threads) operates by checking for all odd numbers greater than or equal to 11, since even number, aside from 2, are not prime. Each thread increments the number it is checking by a factor of double the number of threads, to ensure that each thread has a unique number and the work is evenly divided. To check if a number is prime, odd numbers up to a point, starting from 3, are checked to see if they divide the number, and if it does, the number is not prime. Even numbers are skipped as the number in question will not be prime if it is divisible by an even number. The point in question is a value greater than the square root of the number being checked, as these numbers are guaranteed to not evenly divide the number, as they must be multipled by a number prior to the square root, which would have already to be checked to not divide the number. Checking up to the sqrt starting from 3 is also why the numbers are calculated starting from 11, and all numbers prior are automatically added to the sum (2, 3, 5, 7 -> 17). These optimization greatly reduces the number of checks needed, and therefore reduced the execution time dramatically.

To Compile (from hw1-Prime-Finder directory):
gcc Prime-Finder.c -o Prime-Finder.exe

To Execute (from hw1-Prime-Finder directory)
Prime-Finder.exe